## Keys to Design a Hash Table

### 1. Hash Function
  - The Hash Function will depend on the _**range of key values amd the number of buckets**_.
  - It is an open problem to design a hash function. The idea is to try to assign the key to the bucket as _**uniformly**_ as you can.
  - Ideally, hash function will be a one-one mapping between the key and the bucket.
  - However, in most cases, hash function is not perfect and it is a tradeoff between the _**amount of buckets**_ and the _**capacity of a bucket**_.

### 2. Collision Resolution
  - Ideally, if our hash function's a perfect _**one-one mapping**_, we won't need to handle collions.
  - But in most cases, collisions are _**inevitable**_.
  - For example, in our previous hash function [y = x % 5](https://github.com/HimeshKohad/LeetCode-Problems/blob/main/DSA%20Concepts/HashMaps/3.%20The%20Principle%20of%20Hash%20Table.md), both 1987 and 2 are assigned to bucket 2. This is a _**collision**_.

<br>

- A collision resolution algorithm should solve these question:
  - How to organize the values in the same bucket - ?
  - What if too many values are assigned to the same bucket - ?
  - How to search for a target value in a specific bucket - ?
 
<br>
 
- These questions are related to the _**capacity of the bucket**_ and the _**number of keys**_ which might be mapped into the _**same bucket**_ according to our hash function.
- Let's assume that the bucket, which holds the maximum number of keys, has **N** keys.
- Typically, if **N** is constant and small, we can use a simple **array** to store keys in the same bucket.
- If **N** is variable or large, we might need to use _**height-balanced binary search tree**_ instead.
